---
title: "Summer of RCOS 1"
date: 2018-05-21T18:16:43-04:00
draft: true
---

So I'm going to be writing a number of catching-up blog posts about RCOS over
the next few months, but I'd like to start with the present. We just started the
RCOS Summer session today, and I'm super excited!

First of all, despite having been in RCOS for nearly 4 years, this is the first
time I've been able to be present on campus for a Summer session. Generally, the
Summer sessions are much lighter than the Fall/Spring sessions (by an order of
magnitude), and this Summer is no exception. We had about 10 students present
today, with a handful more working remotely, in contrast with our Fall/Spring
attendance which is up to 150 as of last semester.

There is something really nice about having such a small group, though. It makes
it easier for us to focus on the true spirit of RCOS: learning, having fun,
doing Open Source, and doing it together! It also helps that it is the summer
and most of the students have fewer other commitments than they do during the
school year, which are often the greatest obstacles to success for many
students. Helping and watching the club grow has been one of the most
incredible, educational, and rewarding experiences of my life, but with growth
comes necessary structure, and growing pains. It is easy to lose sight of the
fun, lighthearted nature that is the true spirit and purpose of RCOS.

But for the Summer, we've got a nice small room, and a small group of great
folks who are all excited to start learning some new skills and working on some
new projects. It's been a very difficult transition graduating, and leaving my
post as RCOS coordinator behind, so it was very heartwarming to walk into that
room and see everyone simply having fun and engaging with eachother in a nice,
lighthearted way. I feel very fortunate for every moment I get to interact with
this amazing organization.

I even got another student to work on Yacs for the summer! That makes a team of
four, which seems to be the perfect size for student teams. I'll talk more about
that in my next post, though.

Overall, I'm still very much looking forward to staying involved as much as I
can, and coming back to give talks, see my mentees, and remain a part of the
community.

Until next time,

Ada

**edit 6/1/18: I wrote a less personal, and higher quality version of this post
**[on the RCOS blog](https://blog.rcos.io/2018/summer-of-rcos/)
